# Sustainable License

Sustainable License is the most liberal commercial license we could create. It
balances the freedoms provided by open source software with monetization,
allowing creators to earn money from their work and reinvest that back into
their efforts to continue the development long term.

Do read the [blog post][blog] explaining the reasoning behind Sustainable License.

[blog]: https://manishrjain.com/why-sustainable-license

If you are interested in using the license, please see the full copy of license
and frequently asked questions in this repository.

An example of how the monetization module works in the [Outserv
repository](https://github.com/outcaste-io/outserv/tree/main/billing). While
Outserv uses Ethereum for billing, the license itself does not specify the
billing mechanism. Stripe, or anything else is an equally good mechanism for
charging usage.

## What does Sustainable License stand for?

Sustainable License ensures that the price is transparent and charges are fair
to all. For the same usage, no one should be paying more than other. And that
everyone gets the freedoms offered by the license -- freedom to use, modify, and
commercialize the software -- without any discrimination.

While the license does not mandate it, it is important to the ethos of the
license is that there be no hidden charges for more functionality (to be
negotiated by some sales team), that's not already coded in the source. That
would be in violation of "price is transparent to all".

## Alternative to Open Source

If you were thinking of using an Open Source or a very liberal license for your
project, but also wanted to monetize the project via the currently popular open
source business models (enterprise features, hosting, etc.), then Sustainable
License might be a great choice. Two things to consider:

1. Other licenses like SSPL, Elastic prohibit
others from providing a hosted solution -- Sustainable License has no such
restrictions. So, others can run hosted services on the software.

2. All pricing is transparent and coded in the source -- which leaves zero room
   for a sales team to negotiate behind the scenes.

If these two are not an issue, then Sustainable License would be a great choice
for you. And would give you the benefit of revenue from day 1.

## Alternative to Closed Source

If you were planning to not open source your project and make it a closed-source
commercial project, then I'd recommend using Sustainable License. Sustainable
License would allow you to still generate revenue from day 1. But, get the
amazing benefits of an open and community driven development process, and a fair
and transparent pricing for all.

